[Music]
hey guys how you doing me doing great
just backing where am I going huh glad
you asked I'm setting off on a journey
toward the nearest black hole yep risky
and brave that's me
but don't worry I'll keep you in the
know by live-streaming my entire
adventure so make yourself comfortable
and come travel through space with me
okay so let me introduce my spaceship
the name of this super fast beauty is
the invincible and people won't create
anything of the kind for the next
several decades the thing is that space
distances are seriously long that's why
traveling there would take way more time
than you'd like to spend on the road for
example Voyager 1 a space probe launched
in 1977 was traveling out of the solar
system at the speed of 40,000 miles per
hour if my spacecraft moved at the same
speed it would take me a whole 77
thousand years to get to the nearest
star I mean really it would also take me
more than a billion years to cross the
Milky Way galaxy but luckily the
invincible is much faster than that also
I almost forgot to introduce my
companion sorry Liam you see Liam is a
robot with AI you know artificial
intelligence that's why I have high
hopes for him I'll have someone to talk
to during the flight and he can help me
if things get really tough and now let
the journey begin
here we go 3 2 1 blast-off
Wow the earth is growing smaller and
smaller by the second it seems like no
time has passed but our spacecraft is
already 200 miles above the surface of
our planet since it's daytime I can
clearly see the great lakes shining in
the Sun and oh boy I've just spotted
something moving to the left of my ship
could it be yes it's the International
Space Station did you know that the
station is the most expensive single
object in the world no wonder with a
price tag of 100 billion dollars this
money would buy you 250 Boeing 747s or
two louvre with all the paintings and
artwork inside for my spacecraft the ISS
looks pretty big but I shouldn't be
surprised since the length of the
station is over 350 feet which is more
than the length of a football field but
I don't have time to linger a black hole
is calling for me now I'm about 1,300
miles over the surface of the planet and
I start to spot satellites here and
there I've read that among satellites
there are low and high fliers and while
the lowest flying ones move
approximately 1250 miles away from Earth
which is the length of four and a half
Grand Canyon's the highest reached
22,000 miles into space which almost
equals the Earth's circumference
measuring about 25,000 miles by the way
few people know that satellites travel
at a blinding speed from 7,000 to 18,000
miles per hour also the higher a
satellite is the slower it moves
relatively speaking for example the
weather tracking goes system of
satellites orbits the earth once a day
at a distance of 22,000 miles above your
head and reaches a maximum speed of
7,000 miles per hour
well the satellites are being left
behind and my spacecraft is already
taken Liam and me toward the moon about
240,000 miles away from Earth that's the
same distance you would go if you went
around our planet 10 times in a row from
here Earth looks like a small bright
ball hanging in the middle of nowhere
and you know what else from my
spacecraft I can clearly see that the
moon isn't a perfect sphere it's shaped
more like yeah like an egg Wow
anyway bye-bye moon we're headed
somewhere even further hmm I see Mars
Jupiter Saturn and Neptune passing by in
all their glory and look there's Pluto
who used to be a planet but was later
demoted from here Earth looks like a
small star that's getting fainter and
fainter as I'm moving further away but
wait what's that some object is
approaching me at a high speed could it
be Tesla whoa that was close the thing
just avoided a collision at the last
moment and everything happened too fast
to see it clearly but I'm pretty sure
what I just saw was a Tesla right now
I'm already really really far from Earth
like 100 astronomical units away the
thing is that space distances are so
vast you can't even calculate them in
miles that's why scientists use the term
astronomic unit which equals 93 million
miles the distance from the Sun to earth
that means right now I'm nine point
three billion miles away from our planet
but whoa what's happening why is my
spaceship shaking and rocking so much I
say we're entering the termination shock
the place where solar winds coming from
the Sun travel at a speed of 250 miles
per second and collide with the material
that makes up the galaxy's background ah
there we made it through unscathed but
there's another trial ahead the Oort
cloud that means two things first we're
on the outskirts of the solar system and
second we'll have to get through a cloud
of icy objects orbiting the Sun at a
distance of 100,000 astronomic units in
other words it's 1.87 light-years away
from our star
[Music]
[Applause]
who it must be my lucky day since we got
through the Oort cloud with just a
couple of scratches on the spacecraft
skin and voila we're heading out of the
solar system just one tenth of a light
year later by the way if you were trying
to reach this point by car the trip
would take you more than 19 million
years and even if you piloted one of the
fastest spacecraft that exists nowadays
NASA's new Horizons you would still need
37,000 years to complete the journey so
bring a big lunch alright we've left the
borders of the solar system and now I'm
sitting in my spaceship cabin watching
comets and asteroids pass by time to
think about my destination in the center
of pretty much every galaxy there's a
supermassive black hole for example one
is sitting right at the heart of our
Milky Way galaxy about 27,000 light
years away from Earth but even my ship
wouldn't be able to get that far before
my 100th birthday that's why my
destination is the stellar black hole
nearest to Earth and much smaller in
size but no less mysterious its v6 1/6
monocerotis also known as v6 1/6 Mon
located 3,000 light-years away and
weighing the same is about nine to
thirteen of our Suns a black hole is an
eerie place where those laws of physics
we studied at school stopped working if
a massive star runs out of its star fuel
it becomes super dense and buckles under
its own weight collapsing inward and
bringing space-time along as a result
the gravitational field of this new
thing gets so strong that nothing can
escape it not even light right now we're
approaching the black hole and very soon
I'll send Liam to explore it from the
inside I won't go further than the
horizon also known as the point of no
return
and you can probably guess why right
once an object crosses this invisible
line it can't turn back even if it
changed its mind
anyway Liam says he's ready to start his
journey there he goes bravely plunging
toward the black hole while I'm
recording everything that's happening to
him he's accelerating it looks like he's
contorting and stretching as if I'm
looking through a huge magnifying glass
interestingly the closer to the horizon
he is the more slowly he seems to move
he's trying to send me encoded light
messages like we agreed to in advance
but the light wave stretched to redder
and lower frequencies I'm okay I'm okay
what's happening Liam just froze as if a
gigantic finger has pressed a pause
button and now some force is stretching
him thinner and thinner ah I've read
about this phenomenon it's the infamous
spaghettification which happens in a
super strong non-homogeneous
gravitational field the black hole's
gravity force is stronger at his feet
than at his head that's why he's getting
stretched out like a piece of spaghetti
also the sensors inform me that Liam is
getting hotter and hotter and then
nothing he just disappeared and I can't
see him anymore but since I did my
research before the trip I know that
Liam is in the state of freefall now and
feels no more stretching scalding
radiation or gravity unfortunately the
connection is lost and he can't tell me
anything about the inside of the black
hole hmm this is a moment I didn't think
through well enough anyway I hope you're
okay out there my friend and I think
I'll head home to get ready for my next
space trip what about you do you think I
should go all the way and explore this
black hole myself next time well let me
know down in the comments if you learned
something new today then give this video
a like and share with a friend but hey
don't go getting spaghettified just yet
you need some sauce we have over 2000
cool videos for you to check out here
all you have to do is pick the left or
right video it click on it and in
joy stay on the bright side of life